- [Instructor] After controllers,
the next most important concept
to understand is custom resources.
Resources are one of the most common things we work with
throughout the Kubernetes API.
In fact, you have worked with them
and may not even known
that they were technically resources.
A resource is an endpoint in the Kubernetes API.
It is the thing in the API itself
that we perform actions on.
A resource is technically a collection of objects.
While there may be only one instance,
it's still a collection.
Some of the most used resources in the system
are things like pods,
services, jobs including CRON jobs
and the list goes on from here.
Custom resources are critical in operators,
just like resources themselves are critical for Kubernetes.
Custom resources are simple extensions
of the Kubernetes API.
Today, many common components
are built as modular CRDs
to help make Kubernetes more modular
but a CRD may or may not be part
of a default Kubernetes install.
And, of course, all of the operators that you build
with custom resource definitions
will not be part of the default Kubernetes install
unless you contribute it back to the community
and it is accepted but that's a different situation.
Once a CRD is installed,
it can be accessed via the API
and most commonly, that's done through kubectl.
CRDs can exist without controllers to store data.
There is no requirement for a controller
but an operator usually includes both.
Kubernetes provides some nice bullet points
about declarative versus imperative APIs.
I am including them verbatim from their website
because I think it's important
when evaluating if your resource fits
into the Kubernetes API or not.
So let's first look at the key points
about what they say is a declarative API.
These are the points
that will fit into the Kubernetes API itself.
So things like your API consists
of a relatively small number
of relatively small objects.
The objects define configuration
of applications or infrastructure.
The objects are updated relatively infrequently.
Humans often need to read and write the objects.
The main operations on the objects
are CRUD-y, meaning create, read, update, delete.
And transactions across objects are not required.
The API represents a desired state, not an exact state.
So when you're looking at your object
and determining whether it fits in
to the Kubernetes API,
it needs to fit into this declarative model.
And this is really important
because you don't want to force things
into a Kubernetes API
that should simply be a service.
But some stuff, and what we are going to do
in this course,
do fit very nicely into this declarative model.
So let's take a look at the imperative ones.
And these are things that are not a good fit
for the Kubernetes API
and should be rolled into a service artifact
and that artifact then deployed to Kubernetes.
So things like the client says do this,
and then gets a synchronous response back
when it's done.
And that's really, really important
because Kubernetes is asynchronous
when it comes to its API.
The clients says do this
and then gets an operation ID back,
and has to check a separate Operation object
to determine completion of the request.
And this is very common in an asynchronous API
where you would write using an imperative structure.
So we would give you an ID
and say come back to this ID later to see the status.
You talk about Remote Procedure Calls.
Directly storing large amounts of data,
for example, greater than a few kilobytes per object
or thousands of objects.
And this is something that I actually have had to deal with
in things that actually fit really well
in the declarative
but they were too big and that caused issues
with the master servers
because etcd filled up.
The next one, high bandwidth access.
So it's tens of requests per second sustained.
Again, looking at the kube API
is not designed for that level of operation
with queries going on.
Storing end user data.
So things like images, PII, et cetera
and other large-scale data processed by applications.
Those belong in a database, not in etcd
and not in Kubernetes.
The natural operations on the objects are not CRUD-y.
And finally, you choose to represent pending operations
with an operation ID or an operation object
as opposed to a status,
which is what you usually do with a declarative API.
So again, these are guidelines
that you should use when you're looking at your system
and deciding does it fit in Kubernetes
or does it fit as a service?
From here on out, we're going to assume
that we're declarative with what we're doing
and we are going to build our operator
using this declarative model.